Day 17:
-------
What is Automation Testing?
When to go for Automation?
Different Automation Tools
Advantages of Automation
Criteria for Automation Test Cases
Difference between Manual Testing and Automation Testing


When to go for Automation?
	When we have repititive and complex testcase.

1. Regression Testing
2. Performance Testing
3. Data Driven Testing - Driving testcases using data
4. GUI Testing 

Different Automation Tools
1. Selenium - Functionality, web applications. 
2. Appium -> Mobile testing
3. SOAP UI -> API Testing
4. Jmeter -> Performance testing
5. UFT -> Functional and regression
6. TestComplete 
7. TestCafe
8. Cucumber - BDD 

	Given: The scenario
	when valid un and valid pass is entered
	then application should login

Advantages of Automation: 
1. Accurancy - exact result
2. Less man power and time-saving - Productivity
3. Detects bugs earlier
4. Proper reporting.
5. Reduces documentation work
6. Increased Test coverage
7. Immediate feedback
8. Cost saving
9. Customer satisfaction
10. 24*7 Test execution
11. Easy data driven testing
12. Reuasbility of test scripts
13. Testing on multiple platforms in parallel.

Criteria for Automation Test Cases:
1. Complexity - the less complex a test case, the more feasible it is for automation.
2. Risk - the higher the risk of a test case for product quality and functionality, the higher priority it should
		be given for automation.
3. Stability - the more stable a test cases, the less maintenance it requires for automation.
4. Frequency - The more frequent the test case is, the more suitable for automation.

Difference between Manual Testing and Automation Testing:

1.Manual testing: testcase are executed by human tester
  Automation: test scripts are executed by the software tools.

Processing Time: 1) Manual testing is time consuming
		2) Automation is faster than manual

Investment: 1) Investment is required for human resource
	    2) Automation tools and automated engineers

Reliability: 1) Manual tetsing is not reliable due to posibility of manual error
	     2) Automation is more reliable due to use of automation tools and scripts

Framework requirement: 1) Manual testing doesn't use any framework
			2) Automation uses frameworks (POM,Data driver(testNG),BDD,Keyword etc.,)

Performance Testing: 1) In manual not possible
		     2) We can do in automation 
