Day 13: Exception
-----------------
Introd
uction to Exceptions
What is Exception and Exception Handling?
Types of Exceptions
Use of Try-Catch-finally blocks
Throw and throws keyword
User defined eception.
Exception - Event that disrupts the normal flow of program.
Throwable - super class
1. Exception - we can handle
1. Checked Exception - Java itself will know it might throw an exception. Also it will
allow the user to handle.
1)IOException
2)SQLException
3)FileNotFoundException
2. Unchecked Exception - It will not make compulsory for user to handle it. If they can,
they can
handle it or they can leave it unchecked.
1)RunTimeException
1)ArithmeticException
2)ArrayIndexOutOfBound Exception
2. Error - we cannot handle.
Statement - Line of code
1) Normal
2) Critical
Try-catch:
1) Divide by 0 without try-catch
2) Divide by 0 with try-catch
3) Having a statement in try blocks
4) Print Custom message.
5) Use parent class in catch block.
Multi-catch block.
------------------
For one try block we can have multiple catch blocks.
If you have to perform different tasks at the occurence of different execptions, use java
multi-catch
block.
At a time only one exception can occur and only one catch block is executed.
All catch block must be ordered from more specific to general.
Throws:
-------
It is used to suppress the exception. It will not handle, it will suppress (stop).
a()-> calls b() -> calls c() - In c() we are having an exception.
1. Either c() can handle exception using try-catch block.
2. Or it can throw the exception to b()
3. b() throws the exception to a().
4. a() has to handle.
throw - Forcefully throw the error.
k = i/j;
j > 1
throw new ArithmeticException
Throw Vs
throws
-----------------
1) Throw keyword is used to throw an exception Throws keyword is used in method signature
to declare
explicitly in the code insite the method. an exception. which might be thrown by the method
while
execution of code.
2) Syntax :
throw followed by the instance of The throws keyword is followed by class name
of Exceptions
Exception to be thrown to be thrown.
throw new Exception void
method_named throws Exception
Finally:
Used to execute important code such as closing the connection etc.,
Even if you don't handle the exception, JVM executes the finally blocm before terminating the
block.
Why?
its used to put the cleanup code such as closing a file , closing a connection.
The important statements to be printed can be placed in finally block.
Only one finally block we can have.
User-defined Exception:
-----------------------
We need to write the constructor that takes the String as error message and it is used to call
parent class constructor.