Day 3

software Testing life cycle
QA & QC & Testing


STLC:

    Sequence of different activity performed only by testing team.

1.Requirement Analysis
2.Test Planning
3.Test Case Development
4.Test Environment setup
5.Test execution
6.Test closure


1.Requirement Analysis:
        Here if the testing team having any doubt they conduct a meeting with BA,Dev team,all stake holders.
once they clerify all their doubts ,they will prepare 2 document

    1.Automation Feasibility Reports:
             if the score is above 70---> They can go ahead for automation
             if the score is below 50---> They will go for manual
             if the score is between 50 to 70 --> submit proof of concept.
    
    2.Requirement Tracebility Maxtrix :(RTM)
             They just map all the business requirements with the test case

2.Test Planning:
      only the lead or manager will involue and they will prepare 2 document
        
     1.Statergy document
              It is ahigh level document which contains the over all approach for an enthire testin process. This will be prepare by Test
              Lead/Manager
              It varies from org to org but inside and org it is same for all the projects.
     
     2.Test plan:
              It a high level document which contains all the planning activities for an enthire test process
              Contains:
                     1.scope,2.objective,3.features to be tested,4.features not to be tested,5.cost and time estimation
                     6.risk and mitigation 7staffing and training

3.Test case Development:

              if its a automation we will write test scripts
              if its a manual we will write test case.
  Test Scenario--> document which contains what are all the functionalities that needs to be tested?
                   eg: login functionality ,signup functionality,payment,checkout.
  Test case document----> How the functionality needs to be tested?
                 Test step---> Step by step description to execute your test case

4.Test Environment setup
     Test bed: Confoguring the software and handware that is required for testing.
     smoke Testing---> Build verification Testing.

5.TestExecution:
     -->Execution of the case/ scripts
     -->Reporting the test case
     -->Log the deffect for failed test case
     -->Retesting of the defect
     -->Close the defect   

6.Test Closure:
        if there is no high priority bug,test will be closed.
        Test closure report / test summary report:
          How many test case written
          How many passed
          How many failed
          How defect were reports


QC & QC & Testing:
------------------

Quality Assurance:
   Set of process that hepls to avoid deffects and assure quality.
   Ensuring that a company is providing a high quality product.
   part of SDLC
   whole team is responsible for that
   preventive approach 

Quality Control:
   Set of actitives that helps to detect defects and quality issue before handing it to the customer
   part of STLC--> Only testing team is responsible
   finding the bug and getting it fixed
   subset of QA
   Rective approach

Testing: Is one of the way to detect the defects.


-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Day 3:
------
Software Testing Life Cycle
QA & QC & Testing

STLC:
	Sequence of different activity performed only by tetsing team.

1. Requirement Analysis
2. Test Planning
3. Test Case Development
4. Test Environment Setup
5. Test Execution
6. Test Closure.

1. Requirement Analysis:
	Here if the the testing team having any doubts they conduct a meeting with BA, Dev team, all stake holders. Once they clarify all their 
doubts, they will prepare 2 documnents:

	i) Automation Feasibility Report: 
		if the score is above 70 ---> They can go ahead for automation
		if the score is below 50 ---> They will go for manual
		if the score is between 50 to 70 --> submit proof of concept. 

	ii) Requirement Tracebility Matrix: (RTM)
		they just map all the business requirements with the test cases. 


2. Test Planning: 
	Only the Lead or Manager will involve and they will prepare 2 documents:
	
		i) Statergy document:
			It is a high level document which contains the over all approach for an entire testing process. This will be prepared by Test 				Lead/Manager.
			It varies from org to org but inside and org it is same for all the projects. 

		ii) Test Plan: Test Lead/ Manager
			It a high level document which contains all the planning activities for an entire testing process. 

			Contains:
				a) scope b) Objective c) features to be tested d) features not to be tested e) cost and time estimation
				f) risk and mitigation g) staffing and training. 


3. Test Case Development:
	If its a automation we will write test scripts
	If its a manual we will write test cases.

Test Scenario --> document which contains what are all the functionalities that needs to be tested?
		Eg: Login Functionality, Signup Functionality, Payment, Checkout.

Test case document ---> How the functionality needs to be tested?

	Test steps ---> step by step description to execute your test case. 

4. Test Environment Setup
	Test Bed : Configuring the software and hardware that is required for testing.
	Smoke Testing --> Build Verfication Testing. 


5. Test Execution:
	=> Execution of test case/scripts
	=> Reporting the test result
	=> Log the deffect for failed test case
	=> Retesting of the defect
	=> Close the defect

6. Test Closure:
	If there is no high priority bug, test will be closed. 

	Test closure report / test summary report: 		
		How many test cases written
		How many passed
		How many failed
		How defects were reports

QA & QC & Testing:
-----------------

Quality Assurance:
	Set of process that helps to "avoid" deffects and assure quality.
	Ensuring that a company is providing a high quality product. 
	Part of SDLC
	Whole team is responsible for that.
	Preventive approah 

Quality Control:
	Set of actiites that helps to detect defects and quality issue before handing it to the customer.
	Part of STLC  -> Only testinf team is responsible. 
	Finding the bug and getting it fixed
	Subset of QA
	Reactive approah.
	
Testing: Is one of the way to detect the defects.

